{:title "Arch Linux Day 1: Installation"
 :layout :post
 :tags  ["linux" "installation"]
 :toc true}

## Disclaimer

This is by no means a tutorial or a guide to installing Arch Linux - it is just
how I did my things. Everything that I do should be taken as (at the most)
advice. Everything written here should be taken with a grain of salt, as I am
going off of my memory of what I have done, and may have forgotten things, even
if it was only a few days since I have actually done the deed. I don't remember
every command that I execute.

## The Process

### The Installation Media

You won't believe me when I tell you that the most difficult part of this day
was to burn the image to the disk. But let me tell you: it was.

The main tool I used was ImgBurn on Windows 10. I downloaded the
[ISO image][iso], which was around 600MB. I then proceeded to insert a blank
DVD into my disk drive, and started up ImgBurn. I finished burning the image
onto my disk, but the problem came when ImgBurn started verifying my disk.
At the 20% mark, verification errors began popping up for no reason. I know
because I tried burning it on my Ubuntu laptop, and was successful (which is
why I am using Arch right now). Some research showed me that it was not
ImgBurn's problem, but a combined problem between old hardware and new
software/drivers. Mind you that my main laptop is almost 6 years old (as of
writing this).

### Booting Up

After that fiasco, I booted my disk, and boy did it load up fast.

#### Partitioning

The first thing I did was (re)partitioning my disk. Since I did not have
multiple hard drives, I had to partition my disk. Unfortunately for me,
Windows 10 has already partitioned my disk into 3 parts: the boot-loader,
my main `C:\` drive, and a recovery partition, making 3 primary partitions. As
you may or may not know, you can only have 4 partitions on 1 disk at the same
time. I saw that my previous Fedora 20 distribution got around this by making
a logical partition.

Using `cfdisk`, I deleted my Fedora partitions, then created a large logical
partition (with the remaining space) and pushed my root, boot, swap, and home
partitions on there. I gave every partition type ext4 (default) except swap
(Linux swap/Solaris). I then saved and exited.

#### Formatting the Partitions

After all the partitioning, I used `fdisk -l` to list out all the available
partitions. I then tried to format my swap partition with the commands:

``` sh
mkswap /dev/sda7
swapon /dev/sda7
```

This failed miserably with an error. I then found out that my beloved Fedora 20
installation formatted every partition it touched with lvm. I removed them all
with `lvremove -r /dev/mapping/fedora` and tried formatting again. It worked.

``` sh
mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda5     # Root
mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda6     # Boot
mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda8     # Home (doesn't rhyme with 'oot')
```

#### Installation of the Base System

With formatting done and out of the way, next comes installation of base
packages. The instructions say that I have to install the packages to the
root partition, and that's what I did.

``` sh
# Mount everything
mkdir /mnt/home /mnt/boot
mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
mount /dev/sda6 /mnt/boot
mount /dev/sda8 /mnt/home

# Install the base package
pacstrap /mnt base
```

One thing that I need to do before chroot-ing into the new system is to generate
an fstab file:

``` sh
genfstab -p /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab
arch-chroot /mnt    # Change root
```

#### Configure Network

I wanted a working ethernet connection, so I did `systemctl enable
dhcpcd@enp3s0.service` to enable the ethernet service for my machine. You may
have a different device name, like `eth0`.

#### Install the Boot-Loader

I've been using GRUB before, and didn't want to change, so I ran `pacman -S
grub os-prober` to install GRUB and a module called `os-prober` that detects
my Windows OS so that GRUB recognizes it and allows me to boot from that as
well.

To configure and install GRUB:

``` sh
grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg    # Create config file
grub-install --recheck /dev/sda         # Install GRUB
```

#### Setting root Password

One of the last things that you should do is to set the password for root user
for the next/first time you login. A simple `passwd` does it.

#### Exiting and Rebooting

I exited the chroot with exit (<kbd>Ctrl+D</kbd> also works). Afterwards, I
unmounted all the mounted partitions with `unmount -R /mnt`, the `-R` being
recursive to unmount everything recursively. Apparently, unmounting also
checks for problems with `fuser`. I rebooted the machine with `reboot`.

### First Login

At last, it was time for me to login for the first time! GRUB loaded correctly,
and defaulted to Arch Linux. The loading-up was very fast, as I had nearly
nothing to load. I successfully logged in with my root account, and was greeted
with a very nice shell prompt.

### Creating a User

Creating a user is very essential - I don't want to be logging in as the root
user every time because if I screw something up, I lose everything.

``` sh
useradd -m cheukyin699  # Create the user
passwd cheukyin699      # Change the password

pacman -S sudo          # Install sudo
visudo                  # Edit sudoers file to add user
reboot
```

## A Whole New World

After rebooting, it's time to login a second time as a normal user and start
installing stuff. But I thought that what I did was good enough for the day.

[iso]: https://www.archlinux.org/download/
