---
layout: series
title: "Arch Linux Day 0: Fact-Checking"
date: "2015-12-09 21:03"
excerpt: "The day(s) that I spent reading documentation about how to properly
          install Arch Linux, watching people do it, but not actually doing
          it."
category: arch-linux
group: 'arch-days'
shortname: 'Day 0'
tags: [arch,linux,installation]
---

## Preface

A few days ago, I was upgrading my Fedora 20 to Fedora 21 as Fedora 20 wasn't
supported. I finished my upgrade and rebooted my computer. Unfortunately, the
kernel modules failed to load (for some reason or another), and I was stuck on
the GNOME login screen with no mouse and no keyboard. I then opted for a fresh
Fedora 20 install, but I still thought that it was a bit out of date and there
was going to be not much support coming my way if anything went wrong or awry.
That was when I started to think about Linux distribution alternatives that I
could use.

I thought that Arch Linux would be a nice way to learn more about how a normal
Linux distribution configures and installs thing at the command level. I didn't
think that I would be going with Linux From Scratch, but Arch seemed like the
next best challenge to me. Armed with a notebook and pen, I began scouring the
Internet for information about the whole installation process, which is what I
did for this day, Day 0.

## What I Wanted

By the end of all this, I wanted to have Arch Linux up and running, dual
booting Windows 10, with the GNOME desktop environment installed and enabled on
start-up.

## The Process

I took notes on how to install Arch Linux from the [wiki][wiki]. I also watched
a [video series][vids] on YouTube to double-check, and supplemented my notes
with that as well.

## Postscript

I was not planning to install Arch Linux on my main computer; I was planning on
installing it on my spare laptop to see if anything breaks and not break my
main laptop. Only after I was that confident in my ability to install it I
would actually install it on my main laptop. Needless to say, I got a bit
overzealous after reading the documentation over and over, then finally
understanding what each command does and not blindly following orders like a
, like an, ... *I don't know*.

[wiki]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Installation_guide
[vids]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kQFzVG4wZEg
