---
layout: series
title: "Arch Linux Day 3: Switching Over to i3"
excerpt: "The day that I decide to add another window manager to the mix - the
          one that I have used before and have somewhat forgotten - i3, the
          tiling window manager, one of the best in town."
date: "2015-12-28 21:49"
comments: true
categories: arch-linux
group: 'arch-days'
shortname: 'Day 3'
tags: [arch,linux,installation,GNOME,i3,compton,imagemagick]
---

So for some reason or another, I decided that it was a cool idea to switch from
GNOME display manager to the i3 window manager. Well, why not?


## Installation

```sh
sudo pacman -S i3 i3block
```

Easy enough, right?


## Configuration

i3 looks aesthetically unappetizing right out of the box. That's why I followed
[this][i3vids] video series to help me configure it. I replaced the default
i3status bar below with i3blocks, which seems much easier to configure in my
opinion. I added San Francisco font for the overall font, and
[Font Awesome][fa] for the custom icons for some workspaces. I installed `feh`
to help with displaying my background image, and `imagemagick` to spice up my
lock screen. My i3 dot files are [here][i3dots] if anyone wants to take a look
at them.

### ImageMagick Pointers

If you use `-font` option, make sure that your font is installed in your system.
This caused me quite a lot of issues. Run
`identify -list fonts | grep <fontname>` if you want to check if `imagemagick`
can actually see your font.

I'm sure that experienced users of it know this: to pixelate an image, scale
the image down to say 10%, then scale it back up. This feature alone got me
hooked into investigating the powers of the `convert` tool.


### compton, the Composite Manager

compton is a really cool tool that adds nice transitions between workspaces and
stuff! Unfortunately, it doesn't exist in the default Arch repository - just
the Arch Linux User Repository.

```sh
cd ~/build
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/compton/
cd compton

makepkg -sri
```

To enable it, I added the line `exec --no-startup-id compton -f` in my i3
config file.




[i3vids]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5ze0DjYv5DbCv9vNEzFmP6sU7ZmkGzcf
[fa]: https://github.com/FortAwesome/Font-Awesome
[i3dots]: https://github.com/cheukyin699/i3config
