---
layout: series
title: "Arch Linux Day 4: Switching Over to neovim"
excerpt: "The day in which I switch over to neovim and other things that I
          did."
date: "2016-01-15 09:11"
category: arch-linux
group: 'arch-days'
shortname: 'Day 4'
tags: [arch,linux,config,vim,neovim,terminal,transparent]
---

As if changing over to i3 window manager wasn't enough, I decided to change my
default editor from [vim][vim] to [neovim][neovim]. Of course, some things may
break (which they did).

## Installing neovim

To install neovim on Arch, you must build it yourself because it is not in the
default repository - it is in the Arch Linux User Repository (AUR).

``` sh
cd ~/build
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/neovim-git.git
cd neovim-git

makepkg -sri            # Build the package
```

## vim to neovim

Of course, things won't work out-of-the-box with vim settings in neovim. After
symbolically linking my `.vim/` and `.vimrc` files to my '.config/nvim/' and
`.config/nvim/init.vim` files, I started up neovim.

``` sh
nvim
```

Immediately, I was told that my favourite autocomplete plugin, `YouCompleteMe`,
doesn't work with it and I needed to compile it with python2 support. After
pressing enter to a bunch of different questions about my English spell
checking dictionary, I was in. It looks exactly the same, feels exactly the
same. I heard that, unlike vim, neovim has asynchronous callbacks instead of
synchronous ones, making it faster. I searched online and saw that neovim
doesn't compile with python by default - I needed to enable it with `pip`.

``` sh
sudo pacman -S python2-pip
sudo pip2 install neovim
```

I reopened neovim, and *voila*, `YouCompleteMe` works!

## vim-airline

I saw that other people's vim/neovim screen shots had a very pretty status
line. That's why I wanted to install `vim-airline`.

***NOTE: AFTER INSTALLING THE FONTS FOR VIM-AIRLINE, PLEASE RESTART. OTHERWISE,
YOU WOULD SPEND AN HOUR TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHY VIM-AIRLINE DOESN'T WORK.***

An hour and a half later, I was done with it - vim-airline was successfully
installed, along with the correct font file, and I was elated.

## Transparent Terminal

> See what I did there? No?

Another thing that bothered me since installing GNOME was that there was no
option for an opaque background in the GNOME terminal. I remembered that I
could do that in my Fedora distribution, so I googled it.

Apparently, the Fedora distribution patched the GNOME terminal so that there
would be an option for transparent background for the terminal. Of course, the
main branch would not have that, which explains why my GNOME terminal doesn't
have this feature. To get around it, I had to install a patched version of the
GNOME terminal through the AUR. Here we go again.

***NOTE: THE BELOW COMMANDS WILL REPLACE YOUR DEFAULT gnome-terminal WITH THE
PATCHED VERSION. JUST BE WEARY.***

``` sh
cd ~/build
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/gnome-terminal-fedora.git
cd gnome-terminal-fedora

makepkg -sri
```

It installs nicely, replacing my old terminal and some other things (vte), and
works! Great!

[vim]: http://www.vim.org/
[neovim]: https://neovim.io/
